---
title: "Eighteen"
slug: "eighteen"
date: "2018-12-14"
type: "post"
---

As 2018 comes to an end, here are 18 things I learned in the year 2018.  

1. You don't know what you don't know. Remember your circle of competence. 

2. *How* something happens impacts you more than *what* happens. 

3. Follow your effort, find fulfillment. Don't follow your *passion*. Get good at what you care about. 

4. A labor of love always pays off, just not *when* or *how* you expect it to do so. 

5. Move on. Don't dwell on the past. Focus on the future. Forgive others and yourself. 

6. Be more objective and selective. 

7. Don't try to be smart. Just try not to be an idiot. 

8. Only bad things happen quickly. Anything worthwhile takes time. 

9. One is better than zero. Avoid non-zero days. Do something. Anything. 

10. Every decision is a bet against your future self. Be your own best friend - past you, present you, and future you. 

11. Exercise and books. Both are important to your happiness. 

12. No matter *what* has occurred in your life up to this point, it has no bearing at all on *how* you live from now on. Remember that. 

13. Relationships with people/things require a certain degree of distance. 

14. Unhappy? Try to contribute in a positive way. A feeling of contribution brings happiness. 

15. Be flexible in your thinking, you can't predict the future. Be open. 

16. Be specific. Look at the details. Ask why. Then ask why again. 

17. Move regret in front of your decisions. Think of future you. 

18. Life is all about balance. Goldilocks it. 
