+++
title = "Situational Coffee"
slug = "coffee"
date = "2021-02-27"
type = "post"
+++

Customers do not have problems. They only struggle to make progress.

People buy products or services to get a _job_ done. This is known as jobs to be theory coined by Clayton Christensen.

After reading [Competing Against Luck]https://books.hotdogsandeggs.com/competingagainstluck/), this theory has hit me over the head recently while consuming one of my favorite things.

Coffee.

Here are some of the different options I have to get my fix of coffee:

- Chemex
- Nespresso
- Cometeer
- French Press
- Buy it from a cafe

My wife and I have purchased several items that all fulfill one job. Make coffee.

The latest one we've tried is called [Cometeer](https://cometeer.com/). It's marketed as flash-frozen instant coffee.

A box of frozen pods/pucks arrive on dry ice to your door. When you're ready for a cup of coffee, you just add boiling water or add it to an iced drink.

That's it.

It's a simple process that eliminate several steps.

Cometeer has taught me about _situation and circumstance_ when it comes to why you purchase or buy something.

The product is not the right choice for every scenario when I need a cup of coffee. I likely wouldn't use several pods if I was making coffee for guests or multiple people.

But if I'm in a rush, just adding hot water to a frozen pod is progress for me. Fast progress.

* * *

It's important to remember something that’s well designed for one situation can be a total failure in others.

You wouldn't wear roller blades in a foot race on grass.

The context of the situation matters a lot when determing _why_ someone purchases a product or uses a service.


